Hi, everybody.
When I took office seven
years ago this week,
more than 15% of Americans
went without health insurance.
For folks who did
have coverage,
insurance companies could
deny you coverage or charge
you more just because
you'd been sick.
And too many Americans gave
up their dreams of changing
jobs or going back to school
because they couldn't risk
giving up their
employer-based insurance plan.
We've changed that.
As the Affordable Care
Act has taken effect,
nearly 18 million Americans
have gained coverage.
In fact, for the
first time ever,
more than 90 percent of
Americans are covered.
Up to 129 million Americans
with pre-existing conditions
can no longer be denied
coverage or be charged more
just because
they've been sick.
137 million Americans with
private insurance are now
guaranteed preventive
care coverage.
We've done all this while
cutting our deficits and
keeping health care
inflation to its lowest
levels in fifty years.
And we've begun filling the
gaps in employer-based care
so that when we change
jobs, lose a job,
go back to school, or
start that new business,
we can still get coverage.
If you want to know
how important that is,
just ask an American
like Heather Bragg.
Heather's a small business
owner in
Bluffton, South Carolina.
Last year, she wrote me a
letter and told me how,
for years, her family had
depended on her husband's
job for their insurance.
But thanks to the
Affordable Care Act,
her husband Mike had the
freedom to switch jobs and
join Heather at the small
business she'd launched a
few years ago.
Through the Health
Insurance Marketplace,
they found better coverage
that actually saved them
hundreds of dollars a month.
Today, Heather only pays
about ten dollars for the
asthma inhaler she needs.
"For the first time,"
Heather wrote,
"we're not living
paycheck to paycheck;
we're able to pay our bills
and put some money back
into savings."
And because Mike doesn't
have to work nights or
weekends anymore, he can
coach their son's soccer
team and tuck the
kids in at night.
And you can't put a price
on something like that.
If you haven't looked at
your new coverage options,
you've still got time to
get covered on the
Health Insurance
Marketplace for 2016.
You have until January 31
- next Sunday - to enroll.
Just go to HealthCare.gov,
CuidadoDeSalud.gov,
or call 1-800-318-2596.
Most folks buying a plan on
the Marketplace can find an
option that costs
less than $75 a month.
Even if you already
have insurance,
take a few minutes
to shop around.
In fact, consumers who
switched to a new plan for
2016 ended up saving an
average of more than $500.
That's what the
Affordable Care Act did.
This is health care
in America today.
Affordable, portable
security for you
and your loved ones.
It's making a difference for
millions of Americans every day.
And it's only going
to get better.
Thanks, and have
a great weekend.